Docs: Troubleshooting renv section (#2562)
posit-dev/publisher: docs/troubleshooting.md

Gradio app support was introduced. When deploying a Gradio app to a server
running an older version of Posit Connect than 2024.12.0, it will error.

## `renv` errors on deployment

When deploying `R` projects, it is essential that Posit Publisher has
access to a record of the dependencies used by your project to reproduce
the project on Posit Connect.
The [`renv` package](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) can
create that record as a `lockfile` (commonly named `renv.lock`).

> Projects that already include a `lockfile` do not require `renv` be setup.
> 
> If an R project doesn't have a `lockfile` on deploy, Posit Publisher prompts to
> provide a solution to generate the expected `lockfile`.
> 
> ![](https://cdn.posit.co/publisher/assets/img/publisher-renv-setup-notification.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an R project doesn't have a `lockfile` on deploy, Posit Publisher prompts to
provide a solution to generate the expected `lockfile`.

![](https://cdn.posit.co/publisher/assets/img/publisher-renv-setup-notification.png)

Projects that already include a `lockfile` do not require `renv` be setup.
```

I'd recommend re-ordering this to raise the most important things.

Gradio app support was introduced. When deploying a Gradio app to a server
running an older version of Posit Connect than 2024.12.0, it will error.

### `renv` errors on deployment

> When deploying projects using `R`, it is indispensable for the Posit Publisher extension
> to have access to a record of the dependencies used by your project.
> This record is expected to be found as a `lockfile` (commonly named as `renv.lock`) generated by `renv`,
> since the [`renv` package](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html)
> is a great choice to create reproducible environments.

Reviewer: I found this section a bit awkwardly worded, and sort of out of the order I'd expect the explanation.

```suggestion
When deploying `R` projects, it is essential that Posit Publisher has
access to a record of the dependencies used by your project to reproduce
the project on Posit Connect.
The [`renv` package](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) can
create that record as a `lockfile` (commonly named `renv.lock`).
```

Clarifying things a bit, `renv` is not a requirement, the `lockfile` is.
It is possible to collaborate in projects that already have a `lockfile`
and not having `renv` available in your system.

If there is not a `lockfile`, the Posit Publisher extension will attempt to scan the current state of the project

> and provide you with a solution to generate the expected `lockfile`.

Reviewer: I'd also move this above the "that already include a `lockfile`" explanation since it is more important.

![](https://cdn.posit.co/publisher/assets/img/publisher-renv-setup-notification.png)

> Solutions provided by the Posit Publisher extension to fix an `renv` environment are limited
> to the most common scenarios, any other issue around `renv` and a `lockfile` generation will require
> additional attention by you. For those cases the Posit Publisher extension will suggest
> to evaluate the situation getting the status of the environment with `renv::status()`.

Reviewer: I think this reduction gets the same message across

```suggestion
When uncommon errors occur that Posit Publisher cannot solve for you, it
prompts to evaluate the status of `renv` using
[`renv::status()`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/reference/status.html).
```
